UPDATE recipes SET instruction_text = 'Preheat oven to 425 degrees F (218 C) and arrange plantains on a parchment-lined baking sheet.

Prepare brown or white rice according to package instructions. 

Prepare beans by warming homemade or store-bought beans on the stovetop in a small saucepan and adding salt as needed to taste. Season with ground cumin and chili powder to taste. Heat over medium heat. Then, once bubbling, reduce to a simmer to keep warm.

Toss plantains with oil (or maple syrup/water) and salt and toss to combine. Then bake for about 15 minutes or until golden brown and slightly caramelized. Set aside.

Prepare any other desired toppings at this time, such as sauce of choice, avocado or guacamole, or fresh cilantro.

To serve, layer beans, plantains, eggs, and any other desired toppings or sauces. We went with habanero hot sauce, lime wedges, avocado, and cilantro.

Best when fresh, though leftovers keep stored separately in the refrigerator up to 4 days.' WHERE recipe_id = 2;
UPDATE recipes SET instruction_text = 'Blend all ingredients except chia seeds in a blender until smooth, including any added flavors, fruits, or chocolate. Whisk in chia seeds.

Pour mixture into a jar or glass container and place in the refrigerator for at least 4 hours or overnight to let gel.

Shake or whisk a few times within the first hour to help it gel evenly. I prefer to make this at night to have ready for a fast breakfast the next day. It is also great to make in the morning for a delicious pre-made dessert at night.' WHERE recipe_id = 3;
UPDATE recipes SET instruction_text = 'Preheat oven to 350 degrees Fahrenheit and line a large, rimmed baking sheet with parchment paper.

In a large mixing bowl, combine the oats, nuts and/or seeds, salt and cinnamon. Stir to blend.

Pour in the oil, maple syrup and/or honey and vanilla. Mix well, until every oat and nut is lightly coated. Pour the granola onto your prepared pan and use a large spoon to spread it in an even layer.

Bake until lightly golden, about 21 to 24 minutes, stirring halfway (for extra-clumpy granola, press the stirred granola down with your spatula to create a more even layer). The granola will further crisp up as it cools.

Let the granola cool completely, undisturbed (at least 45 minutes). Top with the dried fruit (and optional chocolate chips, if using). Break the granola into pieces with your hands if you want to retain big chunks, or stir it around with a spoon if you don’t want extra-clumpy granola.

Store the granola in an airtight container at room temperature for 1 to 2 weeks, or in a sealed freezer bag in the freezer for up to 3 months. The dried fruit can freeze solid, so let it warm to room temperature for 5 to 10 minutes before serving.' WHERE recipe_id = 4;
UPDATE recipes SET instruction_text = 'Whisk garlic, ginger, pepper, and 1 Tbsp. vegetable oil in a medium bowl. Add beef, season with salt, and toss to coat.

Heat remaining 1 Tbsp. oil in a large cast-iron skillet over high. Wait until you see some wisps of smoke—if it’s not hot enough, the meat will steam instead of getting deeply browned—then, working in batches if needed, arrange steak in skillet in an even layer (it’s okay to crowd it a bit) and cook, pressing down on pieces to ensure good contact with the pan, until brown around the edges, about 1 minute. Turn steak over and add sliced celery and scallions. Cook, tossing often, until celery is slightly tender but still has some good crunch and scallions are lightly charred, about 2 minutes.

Remove skillet from heat and add soy sauce, vinegar, butter, and 3 Tbsp. water. Toss, until butter is melted and sauce coats steak (still off heat). Add celery leaves and toss until slightly wilted. Season with more salt if needed.

Divide rice among bowls and top with beef stir-fry.' WHERE recipe_id = 5;
UPDATE recipes SET instruction_text = 'Preheat the broiler. Make shallow cuts in the chicken thighs with a sharp knife. Toss the chicken with the lemon juice and 1 1/2 teaspoons salt in a large bowl.

Pulse 2 tablespoons yogurt, the vegetable oil, onion, garlic, ginger, tomato paste, coriander, cumin, 11/2 teaspoons paprika and 1/2 teaspoon salt in a food processor to make a paste. Toss the chicken in the mixture and let marinate 15 minutes.

Place the chicken on a foil-lined broiler pan. Broil, turning once, until slightly charred and a thermometer inserted into the center registers 165 degrees F, 5 to 6 minutes per side.

Meanwhile, combine the remaining 1/2 cup yogurt and 1/4 teaspoon paprika, the cilantro and a pinch of salt in a bowl. Top the chicken with the yogurt sauce and serve with rice, if desired.' WHERE recipe_id = 6;
UPDATE recipes SET instruction_text = 'Broil peppers on an aluminum foil-lined baking sheet 5 inches from heat about 5 minutes on each side or until chiles look blistered.

Place chiles in a zip-top plastic bag; seal and let stand 10 minutes to loosen skins. Peel chiles; remove and discard seeds, and cut chiles into strips. Set aside.

Prepare macaroni according to package directions; drain and set aside.

Melt butter in a Dutch oven over low heat; whisk in flour until smooth. Cook 1 minute, whisking constantly. Gradually whisk in cream and milk; cook over medium heat, whisking constantly, 5 minutes or until mixture is thickened and bubbly.

Stir in 2 3/4 cups Monterey Jack cheese, crumbled goat cheese, and salt until smooth. Stir in roasted chiles and macaroni.

Spoon mixture into a lightly greased 13- x 9-inch baking dish. Top evenly with Italian-seasoned breadcrumbs and Parmesan cheese.

Bake at 375° for 40 minutes. Remove from oven, and sprinkle evenly with remaining 1/4 cup Monterey Jack cheese.

Broil 5 inches from heat about 3 to 5 minutes or until cheese is golden and bubbly.' WHERE recipe_id = 7;
UPDATE recipes SET instruction_text = 'In a large serving bowl, combine the chopped lettuce, radicchio, onion, celery, cherry tomatoes, peppers, sun-dried tomatoes, chickpeas and cheese (if using). Toss the ingredients together and set aside.

If you’ll be serving all of the salad at once, go ahead and drizzle enough dressing in to lightly coat the salad and toss to combine. I prefer to store the salad and dressing separately so I can enjoy salad for a few days.' WHERE recipe_id = 8;
UPDATE recipes SET instruction_text = 'Melt butter over medium heat in a Dutch oven or large saucepan.

Add onion wedges, water, can of tomatoes with their juices, and 1/2 teaspoon of salt. Bring to a simmer. Cook, uncovered, for about 40 minutes. Stir occasionally and add additional salt as needed.

Blend the soup, and then season to taste. ' WHERE recipe_id = 9;
UPDATE recipes SET instruction_text = 'Cook bacon until crispy, then drain on paper towels.

Toast the 8 slices of bread.

Spread 1 tablespoon mayo on each slice of toasted bread. (More or less, to taste).

Add 1 slice of lettuce to 4 pieces of mayo-spreaded toast.

Add 2 slices of tomato on top of lettuce.

Arrange 3 slices of bacon evenly on top of tomato. (Break bacon slices in half to fit, if needed.).

Add 1 slice of lettuce on top of bacon.

Put the remaining 4 pieces of mayo-spreaded toast on top to finish the sandwiches.' WHERE recipe_id = 10;
